README.md, before:

# MitoGraphTools

Example dataset to test <a href="https://github.com/vianamp/MitoGraph">MitoGraph</a> on and ImageJ macros to help you to prepare your data.

Matheus Viana - vianamp@gmail.com - 01.19.2018

## Download

<a href="https://github.com/vianamp/MitoGraphTools/archive/v1.0.zip">Click here to download our example dataset and ImageJ macros</a>. We recommend you to unzip the file in your Desktop.

## Example Dataset

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://sites.google.com/site/vianamp/_/rsrc/1418664353567/mitograph/mitoexamples.png" width="auto" height="128" title="Example Dataset">
</p>

We made availabe five images of mitochondria in budding yeast cells grown in glucose. These cells have been imaged in a spinning disk confocal microscope and their pixel size is `0.056x0.056x0.200µm`. To execute MitoGraph type the following command in the terminal of your Mac OS (spotlight + terminal):

```
cd ~/Desktop/MitoGraph
./MitoGraph -xy 0.056 -z 0.2 -path ~/Desktop/MitoGraphTools-1.0
```

Inspecting the output files `filename.mitograph` you should get these values:

| File | Volume from voxels (µm3) | Average width (µm) | Std width (µm) | Total length (µm) | Volume from length (µm3)|
|------|:------------------------:|:------------------:|:--------------:|:-----------------:|:-----------------------:|
|BuddingYeastGlucose01 | 4.23674	| 0.22246	| 0.03501	| 46.57995	| 3.29254|
|BuddingYeastGlucose02 | 5.23900	| 0.22189	| 0.03842	| 55.27222	| 3.90696|
|BuddingYeastGlucose03 | 2.03777	| 0.24329	| 0.03732	| 15.97084	| 1.12891|
|BuddingYeastGlucose04 | 2.54079	| 0.24168	| 0.03439	| 23.62560	| 1.67000|
|BuddingYeastGlucose05 | 2.01331	| 0.23770	| 0.04171	| 16.01066	| 1.13173|

Each of these images is processed in ~25s in a MacBook Pro 2,9 GHz Intel Core i7.

## ImageJ Macros

MitoGraph performs better over single cell images similar to the images from our test dataset. Here we provide two ImageJ macros that helps you to format your images in that way. If you have any questions about how to use these macros, please contact us.

### GenFramesMaxProjs.ijm

This macro is used to generate a z-stack where each slice corresponds to the max projection of a z-stack. The z-stack generated here is used to draw ROIs around the cells you want to analyze individually with MitoGraph.

USING THIS MACRO:

1. Click run to execute the macro
2. Select the folder that contains the original z-stacks
3. A file named __MaxProjs.tif__ will be created inside the chosen folder

### CropCells.ijm

This macro is used to create single cells z-stacks similar to the one available in the example dataset.

BEFORE USING THIS MACRO:

1. Use the macro GenFramesMaxProjs.ijm to generate the z-stack __MaxProjs.tif__
2. Use the z-stack __MaxProjs.tiff__ to drawn ROIs around the cells that you want to crop
3. Save the ROIs as __RoiSet.zip__

USING THIS MACRO:

1. Click run to execute the macro
2. Select the size of the single cell images you want to create. The default value should be fine for images of mitochondria of yeast cells. You may want to increase this value if your cells are bigger (e.g. mammalian cells)
3. Select the folder that contains the original z-stacks, the file __RoiSet.zip__ and the file __MaxProjs.tiff__
4. A subfolder called __cells__ will be created and should be used as input for MitoGraph

Commit message:

Warning to avoid empty spaces in file names.

README.md, after:

# MitoGraphTools

Example dataset to test <a href="https://github.com/vianamp/MitoGraph">MitoGraph</a> on and ImageJ macros to help you to prepare your data.

Matheus Viana - vianamp@gmail.com - 01.19.2018

## Download

<a href="https://github.com/vianamp/MitoGraphTools/archive/v1.0.zip">Click here to download our example dataset and ImageJ macros</a>. We recommend you to unzip the file in your Desktop.

## Example Dataset

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://sites.google.com/site/vianamp/_/rsrc/1418664353567/mitograph/mitoexamples.png" width="auto" height="128" title="Example Dataset">
</p>

We made availabe five images of mitochondria in budding yeast cells grown in glucose. These cells have been imaged in a spinning disk confocal microscope and their pixel size is `0.056x0.056x0.200µm`. To execute MitoGraph type the following command in the terminal of your Mac OS (spotlight + terminal):

```
cd ~/Desktop/MitoGraph
./MitoGraph -xy 0.056 -z 0.2 -path ~/Desktop/MitoGraphTools-1.0
```

Inspecting the output files `filename.mitograph` you should get these values:

| File | Volume from voxels (µm3) | Average width (µm) | Std width (µm) | Total length (µm) | Volume from length (µm3)|
|------|:------------------------:|:------------------:|:--------------:|:-----------------:|:-----------------------:|
|BuddingYeastGlucose01 | 4.23674	| 0.22246	| 0.03501	| 46.57995	| 3.29254|
|BuddingYeastGlucose02 | 5.23900	| 0.22189	| 0.03842	| 55.27222	| 3.90696|
|BuddingYeastGlucose03 | 2.03777	| 0.24329	| 0.03732	| 15.97084	| 1.12891|
|BuddingYeastGlucose04 | 2.54079	| 0.24168	| 0.03439	| 23.62560	| 1.67000|
|BuddingYeastGlucose05 | 2.01331	| 0.23770	| 0.04171	| 16.01066	| 1.13173|

Each of these images is processed in ~25s in a MacBook Pro 2,9 GHz Intel Core i7.

## ImageJ Macros

MitoGraph performs better over single cell images similar to the images from our test dataset. Here we provide two ImageJ macros that helps you to format your images in that way. If you have any questions about how to use these macros, please contact us.

### GenFramesMaxProjs.ijm

This macro is used to generate a z-stack where each slice corresponds to the max projection of a z-stack. The z-stack generated here is used to draw ROIs around the cells you want to analyze individually with MitoGraph.

**Warning:** make sure your files do not contain empty spaces in their names. A common practice is to replace empty spaces with underscore (_).

USING THIS MACRO:

1. Click run to execute the macro
2. Select the folder that contains the original z-stacks
3. A file named __MaxProjs.tif__ will be created inside the chosen folder

### CropCells.ijm

This macro is used to create single cells z-stacks similar to the one available in the example dataset.

BEFORE USING THIS MACRO:

1. Use the macro GenFramesMaxProjs.ijm to generate the z-stack __MaxProjs.tif__
2. Use the z-stack __MaxProjs.tiff__ to drawn ROIs around the cells that you want to crop
3. Save the ROIs as __RoiSet.zip__

USING THIS MACRO:

1. Click run to execute the macro
2. Select the size of the single cell images you want to create. The default value should be fine for images of mitochondria of yeast cells. You may want to increase this value if your cells are bigger (e.g. mammalian cells)
3. Select the folder that contains the original z-stacks, the file __RoiSet.zip__ and the file __MaxProjs.tiff__
4. A subfolder called __cells__ will be created and should be used as input for MitoGraph
